Added definition of "Black Asian Minority Ethnic" (#334)
tatianamac/selfdefined: 11ty/definitions/black-asian-minority-ethnic.md

---
title: Black Asian Minority Ethnic (BAME)
slug: black-asian-minority-ethnic
flag:
  level: avoid
  text: 'Avoid'
defined: true
excerpt: umbrella term encompassing all people from Black, Asian and minoritised ethnic groups living in the UK
speech: adjective
reading:
  - text: 'Race and identity: ‘Don’t call me BAME’'
    href: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/av/uk-53205008
  - text: 'Racial Categorisation and Terminology'
    href: https://blackbritishacademics.co.uk/about/racial-categorisation-and-terminology/
---

> umbrella term encompassing all people from Black, Asian and minoritised ethnic groups living in the UK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
umbrella initialism for Black, Asian and Minoritised Ethnic groups; tends to be an all-encompassing term used primarily in the UK
```

## Issues

BAME can be near meaningless as it groups together people who have different cultures and experiences of inequality and racism. "Minority" is also a problematic word for describing peoples because, for example, it (inaccurately) connotes powerlessness and subordination (see [minorities](/definitions/minorities/)).

## Usage Tip

> Be more specific wherever possible. Are you referring to Black people? British Pakistanis? Roma? Ask individuals how they identify themselves and use their terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Be more specific wherever possible. Are you referring to Black people? British Pakistanis? Roma? Ask individuals how they identify themselves and use their terms.

As with all communications, power plays into this term. Do you identify with this group? If not, are you speaking on behalf of an entire group you don't identify with and over-generalising/avoiding specifics in doing so?

```

Reviewer: I'd also like to see "Issues" and "Impact" statements here around the impact on flattening of cultures/misassigning/overgeneralising that are touched on in earlier sections.

## Read also

> - People of Color

Reviewer: These are great links! Generally we try to only link things once the terms have been defined.

Reviewer 2: @tatianamac Hey, I'm a British Asian minority and the definition: 'umbrella term encompassing all people from Black, Asian and minoritised ethnic groups living in the UK' sounds about right to me 👍🏼
